In this lecture, you will learn how to
test exception scenarios using junit.To
do that go to the greetingimpl class
and let's add a data validation logic or
exception scenario in here we're in we will
through a illegal argument exception if
the name parameter if it comes in as null
or if it is blank
we are going to throw a illegal argument
exception so in here start writing your if
conditional statement if name is equal to null
or name dot length is equal to 0 then
we'll throw a new illegal argument
exception thats our exceptional scenario
now to test this scenario go back to our  test
class we have left our test in a failure
state if we re-run this test right click
run as junit test
remember we have left it in a failed state
is always a good practice to leave it in
failed state because when we come back we
know where we have left it so let's fix
it
here should be hello junit right
click on the junit view from a test
passes and now let's create a test for the
exception scena we will start writing a new
test by annotating at test if you hit control
space you will get help you will simply use that
annotation then try public void all
the test methods should be void and we
should always give them as meaningful
name as possible so let's say greed
should through an exception underscore
for underscore name is null so you can
make them as meaningful as possible as
long as possible because any developer
who looks at this test will know what
exactly this test is doing and how your
code behaves so it's a very good
way tests are a very good way to document
your code as well so in here let's create an
instance of the greeting you can grab
this piece from here in the next lecture
i'll show you how to reuse the instance
across test for now simply use the
greetingimpl and then let's call
greet you're going to passin null because
they're going to test for the exception
scenarios. Instead of asserting here to
test for the exception we are going to
use junit force powerful expected
attribute on the test annotation there
is an attribute called expected is equal
to this is where we can give the
exception class expected and then
this illegal argument exception dot
class we need to tell junit what
exception we are expecting and this
test runs and that sets we are done
simply right-click go to run as junit test and
both our tests have past here if you see now
there are two tests that ran there is
no guarantee for the order in which
these tests are run so never make
any assumptions while you create your data
object as you can see here our
exceptional scenario test ran first
and then the first valid scenario tests ran
let's make this test fail by passing
in a valid string in here to passin junit
or any string for that matter and try
to rerun if you want to just rerun
this particular test method you can
right-click on it and say run so our
exceptions scenario test fails and it
clearly shows why it has failed here
expected exception
java.lang.illegalargumentexception but
that no exception
never was returned so let's make it or turn
it back green by passing in null and now
if you right click run your test passes
again so now we should also test for the
blank scenario we have only tested for
the null senario it's always a good
practice to
write separate test for each scenario just like
how we write method to do only one thing
you should always also test only one
thing we can rename this and name is
blank so the very same test code the only
thing that changes is the name of this test
method and in here instead off null
we are going to pass in blank strength again
right click or right click on the class
we can also run it from here the play
button and as a junit test as you can see
everything is green
It's that simple test exception
scenarios we mark our test methods with
the at test annotation and we use the
expected attribute on it to assert for the
exception that we are expecting.